My rule of two when validating a new business idea!

A process I ran 10 times in the last 3 years.

3 business ideas became cashflow positive, 6 got killed, and 1 is halfway through.

2 minutes • Come up with a business idea

What works best is talking to strangers in person and listening for their most painful problems in their stories.

I also ask myself early on whether I'd love spending my leisure time with the people whose problems I'd solve.

2 hours • Understand its unit economics

I estimate the time, energy, and money those strangers are currently investing into workarounds and insufficient solutions.

Next, I use AI to spin up a granular cost model, explore the market potential, and map out the competitive landscape.

2 days • Build a clickable prototype

At this stage, all I'm building for is my solution's first impression when talking to strangers!

I want to be able to track their emotional response to my product, not just my words.

Which makes the prototype good enough as soon as it makes the user feel:
• relief for a utility product
• joy for an entertainment product.

2 weeks • Make prototype functional and messaging effective

Now, I basically move into the field and work right from where my ideal customers gather.

Going back and forth between conversations with 2-3 strangers, tweaking my prototype, and refining my messaging.

Every time I feel like the stranger was genuinely excited, I invite them to become a design partner and join a WhatsApp group.

In parallel, I pick the most promising marketing channel, ideate content formats based on what's working right now, and warm up my accounts.

2 months • Gain traction and prove financial viability

There's much more nuance now about how to experiment with formats, scale the ones that outperform, and build a community beyond your design partners.

However, the one thing I always do is interview the most active users and ask:
• How much would they pay for my solution?
• What would it take for them to pay double that amount?

I quadruple their first answer internally to correct for any biases and lowballing.

2 quarters • Cashflow > startup + operating expenses

The nuance explodes here, so I focus on two main levers:
• Scale marketing channel(s) to bring in more cash
• Systemize operations to bring costs down

2 years • Business runs without me as an operator

At this point, I either:
• Keep it running and collect the cashflow
• Exit it and try bigger things

Each time I hit one of those markers, I sit down and have a brutally honest look at my business idea.

I remove all emotional attachment and delusional, wishful thinking.

All I'm after is reasons and evidence to kill it, not excuses to keep it alive.

Each cycle compounds: better pattern recognition, faster kill decisions, and higher success rates.

P.S. I'm building MOMENTUM, an indie accelerator for solo builders where I take you through this exact process.

DM me to join the waitlist for the next cohort, starting Nov 17.
